---
layout: post
title: "My story"
image: "/images/backgrounds/about-2.jpg"
---

I originally trained as a soft tissue therapist, graduating from Canberra Institute of Technology's excellend Advanced Diploma programin 2007. I spent the next 7 years honing my skills working in and later managing a busy soft tissue therapy practice in Canberra. This role exposed me to a wide range of clientele from children to seniors, desk jockeys to weekend warriors, martial artists to mountain bikers and iron women!

It was an enjoyable and rewarding role, but a very physical one. Eventually I found myself regularly on the other side of the treatment table, seeking help for reccurrent low back and pelvic pain.

Fact was, after treating full time for about 5 years, my body was seriously out of whack. My muscles, especially in my trunk and hips, had developed unevenly in response to standing side on to a treatment table and twisting toward my clients for up to 40 hours a week. Not only was I not doing anything to counteract this, I had also recently discovered a new passion for mountain biking. I loved the freedom and flow of the trails at Mt Stromlo and could ride happily for hours at a time. Unfortunately, I was expecting a symmetry and control from my body that it was just not capable of and I'd often get off my bike and hobble, not being able to straighten up.

As I had been noticing more and more with my clients, the manual therapy I was receiving, whilst bringing relief from symptoms for a short while, was not helping me address the underlying reasons for them.

Starting Pilates was a real double whammy for me. First, it proved an excellent strategy for balancing my muscles and and improving my strength, stability and stamina overall. Secondly as I was then compelled to train as a matwork instructor, it became an exciting new dimension to my work - one that thankfully had me moving in less repetitive and stressful ways!

ithrive Pilates was born soon after and I just fell in love with teaching mat classes. I loved watching peoples confidence in their bodies grow as they progressed through beginner and onto more and more challenging classes. I loved the rhythm and flow that I would find while teaching, bodies moving well in harmony made me smile!

I carried on for a while, revelling in my newfound strength and feeling grateful for enjoying my work so much. I then had the privilege of being invited back to CIT where I first did my training, this time as a teacher of posture, palpation, deep anatomy and stretching. Never learnt so much as I did while teaching others! What a joy!

I was no longer prone to episodes of acute back pain, however something was still not quite right. Inside a certain window of function, I performed well and was pain free. But whenever I pushed the boundaries a little I found things still fell apart. I felt strong and could do some pretty cool looking things in Pilates class, but lacked a certain robustness when I had to move fast, dynamically or unexpectedly.

This led me to continue searching, reading and trying new things, until the next piece of the puzzle came along in the way of JEMS(link). Little known in Australia (yet!), JEMS was developed by Joanne Elphinson, a leading elite performance movement and rehabilitation consultant based in the UK. Attending my first JEMS workshop, I was put through a series of assessments that immediately highlighted the areas I still struggled with. Simple strategies were demonstrated that had immediate effect on my balance and unlocked certain movements and abilities I previously couldn't access. I was so excited to introduce this work into my Pilates classes and noted a genuine shift in my clients capacity when I did.

I have since completed 3 of the 4 training modules in JEMS Movement A.R.T (Analysis, Rehabilitation and Training) and hope to be among the first group of Australian practitioners to complete certification in this method in the near future.

More recently, following a move to Sydney I completed my Pilates training, becoming a fully qualified studio instructor.

These days my approach to movement is equally influenced by my STT background, Pilates and the JEMS method.

My hope is that hearing my story gives you some insight into what I bring to the table as a therapist and instructor. Ultimately, wellness is a journey of discovery for all of us. I will never stop wanting to learn more about how we can move better, with more ease and more joy. I look forward to sharing everything I have learnt with you, on your own journey.
